\label{sec:knownbasis}

Basis sets were obtained (8/12/96) from the Extensible Computational
Chemistry Environment (ECCE) Basis Set Database, as developed and distributed
by the Molecular Science Computing Facility, Environmental and
Molecular Sciences Laboratory which is part of the Pacific Northwest
National Laboratory, P.O. Box 999, Richland, Washington 99352, USA,
and is funded by the U.S. Department of Energy.  The Pacific Northwest
National Laboratory is a multi-program laboratory operated by Battelle
Memorial Institue for the U.S. Department of Energy under contract
DE-AC06-76RLO.  Contact David Feller (\verb+df_feller@pnl.gov+) or Don
Jones (\verb+dr_jones@pnl.gov+) for further information.

The names in the NWChem library are consistent with those in the ECCE
database and thus may include spaces.  The standard NWChem input
routines require that strings including spaces are enclosed in
quotation marks (\verb+"..."+) or that blanks are escaped with a
backslash.  As a convenience, basis set names may also have the blanks
replaced with underscores.  Thus, the following all yield the same
basis set for oxygen
\begin{verbatim}
  oxygen library "DZP + Diffuse (Dunning)"
  oxygen library DZP\ +\ Diffuse\ (Dunning)
  oxygen library DZP_+_Diffuse_(Dunning)
\end{verbatim}

Case may be ignored when specifying basis set names, but otherwise
names should be specified exactly as provided below.  A good method is
just to cut/paste from the WWW pages since they were generated
electronically from the library source.

\sloppy
Here is a list of known basis sets and elements included for each.
\begin{itemize}
\item \verb#"STO-2G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca

\item \verb#"STO-3G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb

\item \verb#"STO-6G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"STO-3G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"3-21G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe Cs

\item \verb#"3-21++G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"3-21G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl

\item \verb#"3-21++G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"4-31G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne P S Cl

\item \verb#"6-31G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31++G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31G**"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31+G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31++G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31++G**"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-31G(3df,3pd)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"6-311G"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"6-311G*"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"6-311G**"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"6-311++G**"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"6-311++G(2d,2p)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"6-311G(2df,2pd)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"6-311++G(3df,3pd)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"MINI (Huzinaga)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"MINI (Scaled)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca

\item \verb#"MIDI (Huzinaga)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na

\item \verb#"MIDI!"# \newline
 H C N O F P S Cl

\item \verb#"SV (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"SVP (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"SVP + Diffuse (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"TZ (Dunning)"# \newline
 H Li B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"Chipman DZP + Diffuse"# \newline
 H B C N O F

\item \verb#"DZ (Dunning)"# \newline
 H B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl

\item \verb#"DZP (Dunning)"# \newline
 H B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl

\item \verb#"DZP + Diffuse (Dunning)"# \newline
 H B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"cc-pVDZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"cc-pVTZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"cc-pVQZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"cc-pV5Z"# \newline
 H He Li B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"cc-pCVDZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"cc-pCVTZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"cc-pCVQZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"cc-pCV5Z"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pVDZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pVTZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pVQZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pV5Z"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pCVDZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pCVTZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pCVQZ"# \newline
 H He B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"aug-cc-pCV5Z"# \newline
 H He B C N O F

\item \verb#"GAMESS VTZ"# \newline
 H Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"GAMESS PVTZ"# \newline
 H Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"Partridge Uncontr. 1"# \newline
 Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu
 Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Partridge Uncontr. 2"# \newline
 Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu
 Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Partridge Uncontr. 3"# \newline
 Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu
 Zn

\item \verb#"Ahlrichs VDZ"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Ahlrichs pVDZ"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Ahlrichs VTZ"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al

\item \verb#"Binning/Curtiss SV"# \newline
 Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Binning/Curtiss VTZ"# \newline
 Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Binning/Curtiss SVP"# \newline
 Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"Binning/Curtiss VTZP"# \newline
 Ga Ge As Se Br Kr

\item \verb#"McLean/Chandler VTZ"# \newline
 Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"SV + Rydberg (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"SVP + Rydberg (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"SVP + Diffuse + Rydberg"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"DZ + Rydberg (Dunning)"# \newline
 H B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl

\item \verb#"DZP + Rydberg (Dunning)"# \newline
 H B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl

\item \verb#"DZ + Double Rydberg (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H B C N O F Ne Al Si P S Cl

\item \verb#"SV + Double Rydberg (Dunning-Hay)"# \newline
 H Li Be B C N O F Ne

\item \verb#"Wachters+f"# \newline
 Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu

\item \verb#"Bauschlicher ANO"# \newline
 Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu

\item \verb#"DZVP (DFT Orbital)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe

\item \verb#"DGauss A1 DFT Coulomb Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe

\item \verb#"DGauss A1 DFT Exchange Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe

\item \verb#"DZVP2 (DFT Orbital)"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Al Si P S Cl Ar Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn

\item \verb#"DGauss A2 DFT Coulomb Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Al Si P S Cl Ar Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn

\item \verb#"DGauss A2 DFT Exchange Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Al Si P S Cl Ar Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Zn

\item \verb#"TZVP (DFT Orbital)"# \newline
 H C N O F Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"DGauss A2 DFT Coulomb Fitting"# \newline
 H C N O F Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"DGauss A2 DFT Exchange Fitting"# \newline
 H C N O F Al Si P S Cl Ar

\item \verb#"DeMon Coulomb Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe

\item \verb#"DGauss A1 DFT Coulomb Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe

\item \verb#"DGauss A1 DFT Exchange Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar K Ca Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co
 Ni Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Rb Sr Y Zr Nb Mo Tc Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd In Sn Sb
 Te I Xe

\item \verb#"DGauss A2 DFT Coulomb Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu
 Zn

\item \verb#"DGauss A2 DFT Exchange Fitting"# \newline
 H He Li Be B C N O F Ne Na Mg Al Si P S Cl Ar Sc Ti V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu
 Zn
\end{itemize}

\fussy

